Alright everyone, let's get started. Today we're scoping out the notification system redesign.
Right now users are complaining that they miss important alerts because everything goes into one inbox with no prioritization.
Yeah, I've heard the same from support. The top complaint is that critical alerts like payment failures and security warnings get buried under marketing notifications.
Exactly. So the proposal is to split notifications into tiers. Tier one is critical, things like payment failures, account lockouts, security events. Those should always be visible and not dismissable until acknowledged.
How do we define critical programmatically? Is that a flag on the notification object or does each service define its own priority?
Good question. We'll have a priority enum on the notification schema. Services tag their own events, but the platform enforces the display rules based on that tag.
What are the other tiers? You said tier one is critical.
Tier two is informational, things like successful transactions, feature updates, usage summaries. Those go into a standard feed. Tier three is promotional, which users can opt out of entirely.
For tier one, are we thinking a modal overlay, a persistent banner, or a badge? Because on mobile the behavior might need to be different.
On web, a persistent top banner that stays until the user clicks acknowledge. On mobile, a push notification that opens the app directly to the alert detail.
We need to make sure the acknowledge action is logged server-side. Compliance requires an audit trail for security-related acknowledgements.
Right, that's a hard requirement. Every tier one acknowledgement needs a timestamp, user ID, and notification ID stored in the audit log table.
What about notification preferences? Can users mute specific channels or sources? Like can they turn off notifications from a specific integration?
Yes, but with restrictions. They can mute tier two and tier three sources. Tier one cannot be muted, that's a business rule.
We should surface a preferences page somewhere easy to find. Currently it's buried four levels deep in account settings.
Agreed. Let's add a shortcut directly from the notification panel to the preferences page.
On the backend, are we batching notifications? If a payment processor fires ten events in a second we don't want to spam the user with ten banners.
Good catch. For tier two and three we batch within a five minute window and group by source. For tier one we send immediately every time, no batching.
What's the SLA for tier one delivery? I'm thinking it needs to be under ten seconds from event to display.
Yes, under ten seconds end to end. We'll use a dedicated high priority queue for tier one events separate from the standard queue.
That means we need a new queue infrastructure. Are we using the existing SQS setup or moving to something else?
Sticking with SQS but adding a separate FIFO queue with higher throughput allocation for critical events.
Timeline wise, what are we thinking? We have a board review in six weeks and they'll want to see the tier one flow at minimum.
Here's what I'm thinking. Week one and two, backend schema changes and queue infrastructure. Week three and four, frontend notification panel and banner component. Week five, preferences page and integration testing. Week six, final QA and staging demo.
That's tight but doable if we don't scope creep. The mobile push piece might slip to a follow-up sprint though.
Noted. Mobile push is a stretch goal for this phase. Core scope is web only. Mobile is phase two.
One open question I have: do we need to support real-time updates via websocket or is polling acceptable for the notification feed?
For tier one we absolutely need websocket or SSE for real-time push. For tier two and three polling every thirty seconds is fine.
Okay so we need a websocket server component too. That's another dependency to flag.
Correct. Let's add that to the dependency list. The infrastructure team owns the websocket gateway, we need to coordinate with them.
Any other dependencies we haven't called out?
The compliance team needs to sign off on the audit log schema before we finalize it. And design still needs to deliver the mockups for the preferences page, they said end of this week.
What's our definition of done for this project? What are the acceptance criteria at a high level?
Tier one notifications appear within ten seconds. Tier one cannot be dismissed without acknowledgement. Acknowledgement is logged with full audit trail. Users can manage tier two and tier three preferences. The notification panel loads in under two seconds. Zero tier one notifications dropped under normal load.
That covers it. Let's wrap up. Sarah will write up the PRD and share it by end of week.
Will do. Thanks everyone, talk soon.